# Map

## General

A map is a grid-type representation of the world. No dimension of the map will exceed 1000 squares. The internal representation of the game map is named `gameMap`, which is a 2d array. The square at `(x, y) = (2, 4)` is accessed with `gameMap[2][4]`.

Each square has an associated Tile object (see below).

## Squares/terrain

Internally, map squares are represented by a Tile class with the following attributes:

    tile.terrain:  TERRAIN
    tile.owner:    id OR None
    tile.spreadTo: TERRAIN OR None

where `spreadTo` indicates the presense of a nanoswarm that spreads to terrain this type (see nano.md).

`TERRAIN` is a set of terrain types as follows:

    TERRAIN = {
        1: False,
        2: False,
        ...
        n: False,
        'f': True, # factory
        'c': True, # collector
        ...
    }

where each terrain type is mapped to a boolean value indicating whether the particular terrain type can have ownership. Types `1, ..., n` will represent generic terrain types, and characters will be used for specialized squares.

## Metadata

The costs to build nanoswarms will be passed to the player at the beginning of each game. These costs may
in general depend on the terrain type that the nanoswarm spreads to, and the terrain type that it converts to.
A value `stableFactor` will also be initialized from the map metadata, which is used to determine the cost of non-spreading
nanoswarms by `stableFactor * basecost`.

## Raw .map format

Each `.map` file stores a map in a raw representation outlined below. Given a map of size `mapw` times `maph` with `mapn` different terrain types generated by `mapgenID`, the filename shall be `mapgenID-mapw-maph-mapn.map`. The contents of each file will be:

    'plain'     # the literal string 'plain'
    mapw maph mapn initPower maxTurns viewRad
    nanoCost[0][0] ... nanoCost[0][mapn+1]
    nanoCost[1][0] ... nanoCost[1][mapn+1]
    ...
    nanoCost[mapn+1][0] ... nanoCost[mapn+1][mapn+1]    # the extra 2 rows/columns for special tiles
    stableFactor
    factoryNum
    factory1_x factory1_y factory1_owner
    ...
    factoryn_x factoryn_y factoryn_owner
    [mapData]
    
The `y`-th character of the `x`-th line of `[mapData]` is the terrain type of `map[x][y]`. (Note that this means `[mapData]` is **not space-delimited**).

Other symbolic names should be self-explanatory.